==== FILE: 2008.08692v1.pdf pages=10 ====
---- PAGE 1 ----
Enhancing Graph Neural Network-based Fraud Detectors
against Camouflaged Fraudsters
Yingtong Dou1, Zhiwei Liu1, Li Sun2, Yutong Deng2, Hao Peng3, Philip S. Yu1
1Department of Computer Science, University of Illinois at Chicago
2School of Computer Science, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications
3Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Big Data and Brain Computing, Beihang University
{ydou5,zliu213,psyu}@uic.edu,{l.sun,buptdyt}@bupt.edu.cn,penghao@act.buaa.edu.cn
ABSTRACT
Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have been widely applied to fraud
detection problems in recent years, revealing the suspiciousness of
nodes by aggregating their neighborhood information via different
relations. However, few prior works have noticed the camouflage be-
havior of fraudsters, which could hamper the performance of GNN-
based fraud detectors during the aggregation process. In this paper,
we introduce two types of camouflages based on recent empirical
studies, i.e., the feature camouflage and the relation camouflage.
Existing GNNs have not addressed these two camouflages, which
results in their poor performance in fraud detection problems. Al-
ternatively, we propose a new model named CAmouflage-REsistant
GNN (CARE-GNN), to enhance the GNN aggregation process with
three unique modules against camouflages. Concretely, we first
devise a label-aware similarity measure to find informative neigh-
boring nodes. Then, we leverage reinforcement learning (RL) to find
the optimal amounts of neighbors to be selected. Finally, the selected
neighbors across different relations are aggregated together. Com-
prehensive experiments on two real-world fraud datasets demon-
strate the effectiveness of the RL algorithm. The proposed CARE-
GNN also outperforms state-of-the-art GNNs and GNN-based fraud
detectors. We integrate all GNN-based fraud detectors as an open-
source toolbox1. The CARE-GNN code and datasets are available
at https://github.com/YingtongDou/CARE-GNN.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Security and privacy →Web application security; • Com-
puting methodologies →Neural networks.
KEYWORDS
Graph Neural Networks, Fraud Detection, Reinforcement Learning
ACM Reference Format:
Yingtong Dou1, Zhiwei Liu1, Li Sun2, Yutong Deng2, Hao Peng3, Philip
S. Yu1. 2020. Enhancing Graph Neural Network-based Fraud Detectors
against Camouflaged Fraudsters. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM International
1https://github.com/safe-graph/DGFraud
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for pr
---- PAGE 2 ----
CIKM ’20, October 19–23, 2020, Virtual Event, Ireland
Dou and Liu, et al.
Click this 
l1nk to 
win 
200
Relation I
Relation II
Fraudster
Benign User
💵
Figure 1: Two types of fraudster camouflage. (1) Feature cam-
ouflage: fraudsters add special characters to the text and
make it delusive for feature-based spam detectors. (2) Rela-
tion camouflage: center fraudster connects to many benign
entities under Relation II to attenuate its suspiciousness.
Relation camouflage: previous works [16, 49] show that crowd
workers are actively committing opinion fraud on online social
networks. They can probe the graphs used by defenders [43] and
adjust their behavior to alleviate the suspiciousness [44]. Specifi-
cally, these crafty fraudsters camouflage themselves via connecting
to many benign entities (i.e., posting regular reviews or connecting
to reputable users). As Figure 1 shows, under Relation II, there are
more benign entities than fraudsters.
Directly applying GNNs to graphs with camouflaged fraudsters
will hamper the neighbor aggregation process of GNNs. As Figure 1
shows, if we aggregate neighbors with the intriguing reviews as
node features, it will probably smooth out the suspiciousness of the
center fraudster [13, 25]. Similarly, if we aggregate all neighbors
under Relation II, where there are more dissimilar neighbors, it will
eliminate the suspiciousness of the center fraudster.
Considering the agility of real-world fraudsters [8, 10], design-
ing GNN-based detectors that exactly capture these camouflaged
fraudsters is impractical. Therefore, based on the outcomes of two
camouflages and the aggregation process of GNNs, we propose
three neural modules to enhance the GNNs against the camouflages.
1) For the feature camouflage, we propose a label-aware simi-
larity measure to find the most similar neighbors based on node
features. Specifically, we design a neural classifier as a similarity
measure, which is directly optimized according to experts with
domain knowledge (i.e., annotated data). 2) For the relation camou-
flage, we devise a similarity-aware neighbor selector to select
the similar neighbors of a center node within a relation. Further-
more, we leverage reinforcement learning (RL) to adaptively find
the optimal neighbor selection threshold along with the GNN train-
ing process. 3) We utilize the neighbor filtering thresholds learned
by RL to formulate a relation-aware neighbor aggregator which
combines neighborhood information from different relations and
obtains the final center node representation.
We integrate above three modules together wit
---- PAGE 3 ----
Enhancing Graph Neural Network-based Fraud Detectors against Camouflaged Fraudsters
CIKM ’20, October 19–23, 2020, Virtual Event, Ireland
𝑳𝒂𝒚𝒆𝒓 𝟏
Inter-relation AGG
𝑺(𝟏)
𝑺(𝟏)
𝑺(𝟏)
Neighbor Selector
𝓛𝐒𝐢𝐦𝐢
(𝟏)
𝑣
𝑟"
𝑟#
𝑟"
𝒗𝟏
𝟎
𝒗𝟐
𝟎
𝒗𝟑
𝟎
𝒗𝟎
𝑃
  𝑓
𝑝"
"
𝑝#
"
update
𝒗𝟏
𝓛𝐆𝐍𝐍
Intra-relation AGG
𝒓𝟏
𝒓𝟐
𝒉𝒗,𝟏
𝟏
𝒉𝒗,𝟐
𝟏
… 𝒗𝟏
𝟏
𝒗𝟐
𝟏
…
𝒗𝟑
𝟏
…
𝑳𝒂𝒚𝒆𝒓 𝟐
Neighbor Selector
Intra-relation AGG
Inter-relation AGG
…
𝑳𝒂𝒚𝒆𝒓 𝑳
Neighbor Selector
Intra-relation AGG
Inter-relation AGG
𝒗𝑳
… 𝒗𝟏
𝑳
𝒗𝟐
𝑳
…
𝒗𝟑
𝑳
…
𝓛𝐂𝐀𝐑𝐄
RL-Module
RL-Module
Center node
Neighbor node
RL flow
Aggregation flow
Similarity Measure
𝑺(𝟏)
Aggregation
Propagation
RL-Module
𝑣!
𝑣"
𝑣#
Figure 2: The aggregation process of proposed CARE-GNN at the training phase.
with the graph composed of multi-relations. The trained models
are then used to predict the suspiciousness of unlabeled nodes.
Definition 2.3. GNN-based Fraud Detection. A Graph Neural
Network (GNN) is a deep learning framework to embed graph-
structured data via aggregating the information from its neighbor-
ing nodes [12, 17, 34]. Based on the defined multi-relation graph in
Definition 2.2, we unify the formulation of GNNs from the perspec-
tive of neighbor aggregation (as shown in the left side of Figure 2):
h(l)
v = σ

h(l−1)
v
⊕AGG(l) 
{h(l−1)
v′,r : (v,v′) ∈E(l)
r }|R
r=1

.
(1)
For a center node v, h(l)
v is the hidden embedding at l-th layer and
h(0)
v = xi is the input feature. E(l)
r
denotes edges under relation r at
the l-th layer. h(l−1)
v′,r is the embedding of neighboring nodev′ under
relation r. AGG represents the aggregation function that mapping
the neighborhood information from different relations into a vector,
e.g., mean aggregation [12] and attention aggregation [34]. ⊕is the
operator that combines the information of v and its neighboring
information, e.g., concatenation or summation [12].
For fraud detection problems, we first construct a multi-relation
graph based on domain knowledge. Then, the GNN is trained with
partially labeled nodes supervised by binary classification loss func-
tions. Instead of directly aggregating the neighbors for all relations,
we separate the aggregation part as intra-relation aggregation and
inter-relation aggregation process. During the intra-relation aggre-
gation process, the embedding of neighbors under each relation is
aggregated simultaneously. Then, the embeddings for each relation
are combined during the inter-relation aggregation process. Finally,
the node embeddings at the last layer are used for prediction.
3
PROPOSED MODEL
3.1
Model Overview
The proposed CARE-GNN has three neural modules and its p

==== FILE: 3711896.3737220 (2).pdf pages=11 ====
---- PAGE 1 ----
FLAG: Fraud Detection with LLM-enhanced Graph Neural
Network
Chengdong Yang
13811080302@163.com
Beijing University of Posts and
Telecommunications
Beijing, China
Hongrui Liu
wlgoodboys@163.com
Independent Researcher
Beijing, China
Daixin Wang
daixinwang@qq.com
Independent Researcher
Beijing, China
Zhiqiang Zhang
zzqsmall@gmail.com
Independent Researcher
Hangzhou, China
Cheng Yang
yangcheng@bupt.edu.cn
Beijing University of Posts and
Telecommunications
Beijing, China
Chuan Shi∗
shichuan@bupt.edu.cn
Beijing University of Posts and
Telecommunications
Beijing, China
Abstract
Graph-based methods have proven effective in financial fraud de-
tection by modeling relationships between entities, yet they often
fail to leverage the rich textual information present in real-world
data. With the ability to understand semantic information, large lan-
guage models (LLMs) offer a promising solution to enhance fraud
detection by incorporating textual data, such as user profiles and
transaction descriptions. However, integrating LLMs with graph-
based methods introduces two key challenges: (1) the neighborhood
camouflage problem, where fraudulent nodes disguise themselves
within normal network structures, and (2) the input size constraints
of LLMs, making it difficult to process large, complex graphs with
extensive textual data. In this paper, we propose a novel frame-
work, Fraud Detection with LLM-enhanced Graph Neural Networks
(FLAG), to address these challenges. FLAG integrates LLMs with
graph-based fraud detection by introducing two main modules: se-
mantic similarity neighbor sampling, which reduces the input size
and further alleviates the influence of camouflaged neighbors by
selecting neighbors having high semantic similarity with the target
nodes, and LLM-based node enhancement, which extracts discrimi-
native textual features by LLM to enhance node robustness against
camouflaged neighbors. To further improve the model, we design a
fine-tuning approach that enables the LLM to extract discriminative
text more closely related to the node labels, enhancing the model’s
ability to differentiate between fraudulent and normal nodes. Ex-
tensive experiments on public datasets highlight the superiority of
FLAG, showing average improvements of 3.14% in F1-macro and
6.97% in AUC. Furthermore, we have deployed FLAG in Alipay’s
credit risk assessment system and evaluated its performance on a
∗Corresponding author
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distr
---- PAGE 2 ----
KDD ’25, August 3–7, 2025, Toronto, ON, Canada
Chengdong Yang et al.
methods largely fail to incorporate the expressive textual informa-
tion into their frameworks. This raises a crucial question: how can
we effectively integrate LLMs with graph-based methods to enhance
fraud detection in text-rich graphs?
Integrating LLMs with fraud detection on graphs presents unique
challenges. Firstly, integrating LLMs with graphs can exacerbate
the neighborhood camouflage problem, which is inherent to graph-
based fraud detection tasks. Specifically, as shown in Figure 1, fraud-
sters often camouflage themselves by employing sophisticated tac-
tics to mimic regular network patterns [27, 36], e.g., interacting
with normal users in the social networks or transferring funds
to normal accounts in transaction networks. This behavior con-
ceals fraudulent nodes within normal heterophilous neighborhoods,
resulting in heterophily for fraudulent nodes and homophily for
normal ones, which violates the homophily [12] inductive bias of
GNNs. Current methods that combine LLMs with graph-based tasks
struggle to address this challenge. For instance, InstructGLM [47]
uses a LLMs-as-Predictors approach with instruction prompts to
predict node labels. However, due to the dataset’s dominance of
homophilous normal nodes, it struggles to identify anomalous,
heterophilous nodes. GAugLLM adopts an LLMs-as-Enhancers strat-
egy, generating explanations from node text and graph structure
to enhance the GNN predictor. However, the effectiveness of the
LLM is limited by the GNN predictor, especially when the GNN
is inherently homophilic, hindering the LLM’s performance gains.
Similarly, GraphTranslator [49] aligns graph models with LLMs
through a translator module, which faces challenges in fraud de-
tection when aligning LLMs to homophilic GNNs. More details
about related work can be found in Appendix B. Secondly, LLMs
have inherent input size constraints [1, 39], making it infeasible to
process the whole ego-graph directly, especially when dealing with
highly connected nodes and extensive textual data. Particularly,
financial fraud detection graphs often exhibit complex relationships
and extensive textual attributes [24, 32], necessitating strategies to
reduce the input size while preserving critical information. How-
ever, most current LLM-based gnns use sampling strategies like
GraphSAGE [16]’s random sampling [14, 44], but could lose valu-
able homophilic neighbors and exacerbate the neighbor camouflage
issue.
In this paper, we propose a novel framework Fraud Detection
with LLM-enhanced G
---- PAGE 3 ----
FLAG: Fraud Detection with LLM-enhanced Graph Neural Network
KDD ’25, August 3–7, 2025, Toronto, ON, Canada
Figure 2: The framework of the proposed FLAG. Starting with a target node in the original graph, a k-hop subgraph is sampled
using a semantic similarity neighbor sampling. The text of all nodes in the subgraph is concatenated into a text sequence, which
is then processed by the LLM to extract both discriminative and residual texts. These texts are encoded with a frozen LM and,
along with the subgraph structure, passed through shared-parameter skip-GNN modules to obtain target node representations.
The framework is optimized using three loss functions: Disc. Loss, aligning discriminative text with one-hot labels; Res. Loss,
aligning residual text with uniform distribution; and Orthog. Loss, ensuring the two representations remain orthogonal.
Additionally, we give examples of discriminative and residual texts extracted from the original text in the Appendix C.
mean or max) and 𝜓,𝜙denote differentiable transformation func-
tions such as multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs). The initial represen-
tation ℎ0𝑣is the raw feature vector 𝑥𝑣. The final label predictions
from a GNN are given by:
𝑍= softmax(GNNΘ(𝐴, X)) ∈R|V|×𝐾,
(2)
where 𝐴∈R|V|×|V| is the adjacency matrix, Θ denotes the set of
trainable parameters, and each row of matrix 𝑍corresponds the
predicted label distribution of a specific node.
2.2
Neighborhood camouflage
In this paper, neighborhood camouflage refers to the phenomenon
that the network exhibits distinguish patterns for various classes.
The phenomenon often arises in the graph-based fraud detection
scenario, which is a highly imbalanced binary classification task. In
this scenario, as shown in Figure 1, the fraudulent users actively or
passively camouflage themselves by interacting with normal nodes,
leading to heterophily, while the normal users remains homophily.
The neighborhood camouflage violates the general homophily as-
sumption, becoming a significant challenge for fraud detection.
3
Method
In this section, we propose FLAG, a novel approach designed for
fraud detection by integrating LLMs with graph-based methods.
FLAG consists of two main components: a semantic similarity neigh-
bor sampling module and an LLM-based node enhancement module.
Given a text graph, FLAG first employs semantic similarity neigh-
bor sampling to reduce input size and the influence of heterophily
neighbors. The sampled graph is then processed by the LLM-based
node enhancement module, which extracts discriminative text ex-
pected to strongly correlate with the as

